#summary Key position discussion and keymap

= Letter positions analogous to English pronunciation =

Majority of letters can be typed directly with English pronunciation of that letter. Like "ka(ক)" will be typerd with english letter "k". Vowel "ii(ঈ)" will be typed with english letter shift+ii (Capital I twice)

= Letter positions different to English pronunciation = 

To embed 64 letter all of the 26 letter position in English keyboard are used. Some less used Bangla letters are placed in such a place where it holds a unique position but doesn't match with its english phonetic spelling letter. For example, onusshar(ং) is placed in shift+V position whereas its spelling doesn't match with the spelling of v. This technique faciliate a better quality layout design.
The letters differ from usual pronunciation of english letter is listed below:

ড় = q
ঢ় = shift+q ( Capital Q)
ং = shift+v ( Capital V)
ত্‍ = shift+z ( Capital Z)
ঁ = shift+b ( Capital B)
ঃ = shift+m ( Capital M)
থ = shift+f ( Capital R) 
ধ = shift+w ( Capital W)


= Letter with "h" as follower =

People often express letter "kha(খ)" as letter "k" and then "h". To support this facility some letters are given provision to be typed by pressing a letter and then pressing h. "kha(খ)" is such an example which is typed by "ka(ক)" and "h".

For vowels, pressing "h" will switch between kar-form (ি) to full-form (ই)


= Joiner key =

Conjugate consonants are consist of one more consonants(may or may not be followed by vowel). To construct a conjugate letter we have to join all consonants in that conjugate letter. Hasanta( ্) is used as joiner according to unicode consortium guideline. 
Due to the large number of conjugates, to provide quick typing facility of them hasanta is placed in the letter "q" position, that is to type hasanta we have to press q.